So let's talk about Vit.
And I've been pronouncing it Vit for so
long that I probably will
keep calling it that.
It is pronounced V-I-T, not V-I-T.
And it means quick in French,
which is where the name comes from.
So Vit is a tool put out by the view team.
It's going to be our build tool
that we're gonna be using today.
Previous versions of this class used
Parcel, and before that it was Webpack.
I think that's it.
I don't think I ever use
Browserify in this class.
But I basically just described to
you my history of build tools.
I used to use Browserify long
time ago with Grunt and Gulp.
Yeah, maybe we didn't used to do that.
I'd have to go look at what
version one actually used.
Anyway, after that we used Webpack.
And then for
the longest time I've been using Parcel.
I like Parcel because, and it's still
super valid for you to use Parcel now.
Parcel is zero config.
You just put it in a file, and
the entire thing just works.
Vit is create a very small file,
and then everything just works.
So it works really well.
Vit under the hood is using roll up,
right?
Roll up is a very useful build
tool created by Rich Harris,
who's also the guy that created Svelte.
He's taught here Frontend Masters,
very smart, very nice person.
Works at Parcel now.
So Vit, which is created by the view team,
which was created by a person who created
Svelte, which we're now gonna use for
React, I feel like it's
just a full circle now.
It's like a framework group hug.
So Vit, awesome project.
If you wanna use Parcel,
just checkout v7 in this course.
It works relatively similar.
So let's go ahead and use Vit.
So we're gonna install here,
npm install- capital D.
We're gonna do vite@3.1.4,
and we're gonna do
@vitejs/plugin-react@2.1.0.
Okay, that'll take a second.
It builds a lot of stuff.
Yeah, so it does use roll up.
But it also uses es build as well.
There's a bunch of stuff
that goes into Vit.
So I actually don't know all
the misdirection that happens in there.
Suffice to say,
it's handling a lot of stuff for
you that you don't have
to really worry about.
It's also handling TypeScript.
For the most part, you set up a little
config file, everything else Vit just
figures out for you, and you end up
with a really good optimized output.
Super valid tool to use
in production today.
Go back to your code in index dot HTML.
We're gonna delete these
two script tags cuz for
now we're actually going to
bundle React into our project.
Okay, and then we have to
put type equals module here.
This is for Vit to know that
we're not doing common JS here,
we're gonna be doing ES6 modules, right?
And then not dot slash app JS,
we're actually gonna make this a JSX file.
Next question that I know someone's
thinking is, why are we doing JS and not,
or why are we doing JSX and not JS?
Famously, one of the React core Devs said,
I just do JS.
Why doesn't everyone do JS?
JSX is just an extension of JS, why do we
need a different file extension for it?
Frankly, a little inclined to agree
previous versions of this class called
them JS files.
But Vit insists that you call it JSX,
or it will not do the JSX translation.
So we have to call it that.
Or we have to go configure Vit to look at
JS files for JSX, which I didn't wanna do.
So for my benefit, for your benefit,
for this class, we're gonna say, JSX.
So, dot JSX,
we're gonna rename this app JSX up
here momentarily, or
we can just do it now, JSX.
And now all that stuff will work.
Okay, now we need to create, again,
at the root of our project,
a, what is it, config.vit.js.
All right, did I get that backwards,
other way?
Vit.config.js.
I didn't get my cool little logo there,
so that's how I knew that I messed it up.
Okay, in here we're gonna say import,
define config from, not roll up.
Thank you.
Config from Vit.
And we're going to import react from
@vitejsplugin- react, okay?
We're going to export a default
to find config with an object, plugins.
And we're gonna give it react with
the invocation of the React function.
And then I'm gonna tell it
that my route is source.
So what I will tell you is, most people
actually will put their index html file
directly in the base of their project.
So if you did that,
then you wouldn't need this route.
In retrospect,
that probably would have been easier,
but the entire course is written this way.
So just follow with me here.
At the end it really doesn't matter,
to be totally honest with you.
Okay, we now have a build process.
This is it.
This is really all we need to do for
our build process.
We'll come back here and
mess with it maybe a little bit later.
But for the most part, this is just done.
Parcel is zero config.
Vit is this much config, which is,
I'm gonna judge acceptable, right?
Not too bad.
And so what's gonna happen is, it's
going to go into your source directory.
It's gonna find the index html file.
And then it's going to find it's like,
okay, you have an app dot JSX,
and it crawls your graph from there,
right?
So understands your JS.
It'll understand your CSS, it runs
all that stuff through Vit as well.
And then, it'll come in into your app dot
JSX, it'll find all of its dependencies.
So it finds your graph all by itself.
You don't have to do
anything more than that.
That's how the black
magic is happening here.
If it's all coming from
your index dot HTML.
If you have other heads, right, index HTML
being the head file that it crawls out of,
you can identify that to Vit,
and have a go find that.
Maybe you have two different apps
that need to be rendered out, right?
You would do that here in your config.
So by default,
this is just gonna work for us.
So the next thing that we wanna do, we
deleted the source or those script tags.
So now we need to go install React so
that it'll build correctly.
So npm install -D.
And then when you react @ a team, and
this isn't D, we actually want this.
React.2.0, and
react-dom@18.2.0.
So NPM install without the capital D,
it is not a dev dependency,
it is a production dependency.
And then we want 18.2.0,
and react-dom@18.2.0.
They release them in lockstep, so
they're always the same version.
So you go in here, we see that we do have,
in fact, Vit is in here, React, React-dom.
Awesome, all good stuff.
We're gonna go back to app dot JS.
If you haven't renamed it app dot JSX,
please do so now so it's app dot JSX.
And we have this React is like I don't
know what that is, React is not defined.
You can see here the saying
es lint no undefined,
just as a helpful thing by the way.
If you click on this, no on def,
this will actually take you directly to
the esint doc telling you,
it's opening Firefox for me, taking a sec.
It'll take you directly to
the rule that it's breaking so
you can actually read, right?
That's just a helpful tip for
VS Code that I quite like.
So what we're gonna do up
here is we're going to say,
import react from react, and
import react-dom from react-dom.
So now, notice this isn't read anymore.
If we run npm and lint,
no problems anymore.
Cuz now these are not undefined,
they're defined.
Cuz we know where they're getting from.
And again, V is smart not to say,
you're importing react from react,
I'm going to include
that in your package now.
So for the most part, we don't have
to think about our build anymore.
Vit just kind of takes care of it for us.
So one thing that I want to
show you about ES6 modules.
Let's say that right now we're
only using create route, right?
So I can come up here and
I can delete this and I can say,
I want just create route here.
And I can go down here and
instead of saying react-dom.
So this is how you import just
parts of packages, right?
In theory, this is what you wanna do for
the most part.
Vit has something that's called tree
shaking, which is another word for
live code inclusion, which is different
than dead code elimination, right?
Live code inclusion, aka tree shaking,
only includes code that
you're actively using.
Whereas dead code elimination
actually we'll go through and
see if we can find things
that are never called.
Live code inclusion is always better,
right, for the most part.
So if you do all of your code like this,
where you're only including things that
you use, it gives Vit
the opportunity to eliminate code.
Let's say react-dom had some different
part that you were never going to use.
It wouldn't include that in
your bundle anymore, right,
which is objectively a good thing.
Now, I think no matter what you do,
because of react-dom,
it includes everything every time.
So I don't think we're
actually saving anything here.
I'm just trying to get you in a good habit
of an only including the things that
you use.
But that's what those Cali brackets mean.
It's like I'm only including part of this,
which I only use here, right?
So, head back to your
package.json to your scripts tag.
We have format, we have lint here.
Let's put a couple more in here.
We're gonna put Dev,
which is just gonna be Vit.
That's just gonna be like start
my DevServer and get me going.
Build, which is, get me ready for
production, build me out to static files.
So this is what you would run in like
CI or something like that, right?
Okay, and then we want preview.
I find this one to be useful and
one of my favorite things that's different
about Vit versus other build tools.
I wanna see my production build
before I go to production, right?
So what preview does is,
it runs Vit build, and
then it shows you what Vit build built for
you.
If you were doing this with Parcel or
something like that,
you'd have to do Parcel build, and then
you'd have to use some sort of static web
server to spin it up and
shove yourself, right?
It's fine, it's not that hard to do.
But with Vit preview,
it does all that for you.
Okay, and now I can say npm run dev,
I get this nice little thing going here.
And now I can say,
open this in my browser.
And now I have Adopt Me
running on my local computer.
So I don't want that in Firefox,
I want this here.
So [INAUDIBLE] you have
sort of file one here.
Close this tab please.
The one that we were using before, right?
Please close that one
that your file opened.
And now just go to local host, 5173,
that's what Vit runs on always.
And you should see the same thing.
But the reason why I'm being very explicit
like, please close this, itt's very
easy to come back to your browser and
not look at which tab you're on.
And you're refreshing, it's like, why is
this breaking, why is this not working?
It's cuz you're not using your DevServer.
Cuz if I open that and I refresh that,
you're gonna get not rendered, right?
Because now React is no longer in the
project, and so doesn't know what to do.
So please make sure
you're on localhost 5173.
Any questions?
>> Getting the error you
installed ES build for
another platform than the one
you're currently using?
>> That's interesting.
So it sounds when MPM installed Vit,
it chose the wrong ES build for you.
I'm gonna guess it's an Intel Mac, yeah?
>> So my guess is [CROSSTALK]
>> I'm sorry, it's a-
>> M one?
So this is an M one max.
So it does work on M one max.
It probably installed the intel build for
it, not the.
So maybe notice, self identifying
is the wrong architecture?
That's what I look into.
All right, so if you go back to
your React hold courses here,
we are all the way through Vit here and
our JS tools.
And you can see here we now have another.
If you're this far and
all your stuff is not working correctly,
please to top over 02 JS tools.
And you can see all the stuff that we just
did together here should be right here.
And if you do open one of these.
So let's say I installed it, cloned it,
and I go into this directory,
just make sure you do MPM install, right,
to get all of the dependencies installed.
And then you can run MPM, run Dev,
and everything should just be working.